03-aboutness.md, before:

# Aboutness

- [Brief](#brief)
- [Warm-Up](#warm-up)
- [Methods](#methods)
- [Handoff](#handoff)
- [Homework](#homework)
- [Examples](#examples)
- [Readings](#readings)
- [Resources](#resources)
- [Vocabulary](#vocabulary)

## Brief

> The designer must think first, work later.
>
> —[Ladislav Sutnar](https://www.aiga.org/medalist-ladislavsutnar), [Pioneer of Information Design](https://www.eyemagazine.com/feature/article/sutnar), 1897–1976

> Get rid of half the words on each page, then get rid of half of what’s left.
>
> —[Steve Krug](https://sensible.com/about/), usability consultant and author of [Don’t Make Me Think](https://sensible.com/dont-make-me-think/)

1. Write a concise, single sentence about yourself as a designer, in under 120 characters in length.
    - Examples:
      - I am Chaitanya, product designer, mother and a photography enthusiast currently living in San Francisco. (`104 characters`)
      - Amanda Pinsker—Experience designer. I like to rethink things through experimentation, compassion, and a sense of humor. (`119 characters`)
2. *(Maybe start here first.)* Write a series of short paragraphs (one to three) about who you are, beyond being a designer; a personal bio that tells your story, with an emphasis on keywords about what you do, your passions, experience, etc. Consider each paragraph as two to three short, meaningful descriptions (120 characters each).
    - See [About Me](#about-me) for examples.
3. Choose a project to develop as a case study for your portfolio and write about the process using the PAR and RAD content methods. Aim for around 500 *words* (not characters).
    - See [Case Studies](#case-studies) for examples.

- **Note:** Don’t worry about length — write first — then edit for clarity and conciseness later.

## Warm-Up

Consider generating a keyword list to start the process of writing:

- designer
- rethink
- experimentation
- compassion
- humor

## Methods

### PAR

Problem, action, and result:

1. What problem did the project solve?
2. What actions did you take to do this project?
3. How successful were you in solving the problem?
    - What were the results of the project?
- See [Crafting Your Story](https://thegymnasium.com/take5/crafting-your-story)

### RAD

Lean content is reliable, authentic, and direct language (this builds the reader’s trust and confidence).

1. Reliable
    - It sets and meets the reader’s expectations; it’s consistent throughout each piece of content.
2. Authentic
    - If feels like a real conversation is happening; the language is natural and clear.
3. Direct
    - It gives you exactly what you need to make a decision.
- See [5 mins on Lean Content](https://stephaniehay.com/2012/12/24/lean-content-testing-marketing-copy-instead-of-spinning-your-wheels/)

## Handoff

Share a link to your work in the `03-aboutness` channel in Slack.

### GitHub Config

- Create a project folder (repo) with two Markdown files, plus an `img` folder with images.
  - For example:
    - `03-aboutness`
      - `index.md`
      - `case-study.md`
      - `img`
        - `filename.png`
        - `…`

### Markdown Files

- `index.md`

```
# Your Name

## About Me

A concise, single sentence about yourself as a designer (aim for about 100 characers).

- [View Selected Case Study](case-study.md) <!-- A link to your case study -->

## My Story

![Alt text description.](img/lsutnar-headshot.png) <! -- Maybe a photo of yourself? -->

A series of short paragraphs (one to three) about who you are, beyond being a designer; a personal bio that tells your story, with an emphasis on keywords about what you do, your passions, experience, etc. Consider each paragraph as two to three short, meaningful descriptions (120 characters each). Don’t worry about length — write first — then edit for clarity and conciseness later.
```

- `case-study.md`

```
# Project Title

Content goes here…

![Alt text description.](img/filename.png)

Note: Use Markdown for headings, paragraphs, lists, quotes, images, etc., to add structural meaning to your content.
```

### Image Details

See [Images](#images) for resources on choosing the right image format and file optimization.

- Size: Export images to a max width of `1280 px` (considered full-width-esque) at a resolution of `72 px` and any width below depending on your content.
- Format: If it’s a photo, save as a JPG; and if it’s *not* a photo, save as a PNG.
- Name: Use a meaningful filename, in all-lowercase, and separate words with hyphens. See [Naming guidelines](https://developers.google.com/style/filenames) and <cite>[Dashes vs. underscores](https://www.mattcutts.com/blog/dashes-vs-underscores/)</cite> for details.
  - Use the filename convention of case, letter, first name initial followed by last name (surname) combined with the best practice of all-lowercase and separate words with hyphens.
    - For example: `project-detail-1.png`

**Notes:**

- For animation(s), without sound, use an animated GIF as the file format, and still use Markdown’s image syntax (`![Alt text description.](img/animation.gif)`).
- For video(s), try using [Video to markdown!](https://video-to-markdown.netlify.app) to generate the necessary Markdown.

## Homework

1. Edit your about me text focusing on your expertise, passion, and personality.
  - Do you need it? <s>My name is</s>
  - Who am I hiring?
  - What makes you, *you*, outside of design?
2. Edit your case study based on in-class feedback.

### Holistic

- Balance the number of images and amount of text
  - If there’s an image, it either needs a short description above or a caption below.
  - As an exercise, remove all the images, is the text TL;DR (too long; didn’t read)?
    - Maybe you started at under 1,000 words. Can you tell your story with clarity and meaning, in half the words, without losing your reliable, authentic, and direct language?
    - Listen (Start at `2:45`) [
Episode 35 – Don’t Make Me Think with Steve Krug](https://extraordinarybusinessbooks.com/episode-35-dont-make-me-think-with-steve-krug/)

### Proximate

- Title, client, and short description
  - For example:
    ```
    # Wemo Smart Dimmer Setup
    ## Belkin International, Inc.

    Setting up a smart dimmer switch involves wiring, calibrating brightness levels, and connecting to a smart home app. I coordinated design of multiple touch points in guiding users through this process.
    ```
- Project details:
  - My Goal
  - What you did; topics/keywords: Ideation, identity, UX, typography, design system
  - Team
  - Role
  - Dates
  - Deadlines (Two-day project)
  - etc.
    - Examples:
      - Caroline Win: [Wemo Smart Dimmer Setup](https://www.carolinewin.com/case-studies/wemo-smart-dimmer-setup)
      - Simon Collison: [Citipo](https://colly.com/work/citipo)

3. Begin to collect and collate content for your résumé/CV (curriculum vitae).
  - The clients in your case studies will map to your work experience section of your résumé/CV.

### Extra Credit

- Choose another project; document and write another case study.

## Examples

### About Me

- [Caroline Win](https://www.carolinewin.com)
  - [About Me](https://www.carolinewin.com/about)
- [Chaitanya Mendu](https://www.chaitanya.design)
  - [My Story](https://www.chaitanya.design/about-me)
- [Amanda Pinsker](https://amandapinsker.com)
- [Simon Collison](https://colly.com/about)
- [Designer Bio Generator™](https://lab.sulko.co/designer-bio/)
- [etc. (&c.)](https://sidebar.io/category/portfolios/)

### Case Studies

- Caroline Win
  - [Wemo Smart Dimmer Setup](https://www.carolinewin.com/case-studies/wemo-smart-dimmer-setup)
- Simon Collison
  - [Strong Back | Open Heart](https://colly.com/work/strong-back-open-heart)
  - [Citipo](https://colly.com/work/citipo)
- Upstatement
  - [Tito’s Handmade Vodka: Turning spirits into love & goodness](https://upstatement.com/case-study/titos-handmade-vodka/)
- Pentagram
  - [Shake Shack](https://www.pentagram.com/work/shake-shack)
- [UX Case Studies](https://uxdesign.cc/ux-case-studies/home)
- [RGD Case Studies](https://www.rgd.ca/community/case-studies.php)

## Readings

### Content Strategy

- [Being Real Builds Trust](https://alistapart.com/article/being-real-builds-trust/)
- [The Text-First Portfolio](https://www.uxbeginner.com/the-text-first-ux-portfolio/)
- [
Episode 35 – Don’t Make Me Think with Steve Krug](https://extraordinarybusinessbooks.com/episode-35-dont-make-me-think-with-steve-krug/) (Start at `2:45`)

### Case Study Development

- [UX Portfolio Case Study template (plus examples from successful hires)](https://uxplanet.org/ux-portfolio-case-study-template-plus-examples-from-successful-hires-86d5b0faa2d6)
- [How to Write Project Case Studies for Your Portfolio](https://medium.com/@vanschneider/how-to-write-project-case-studies-for-your-portfolio-2e8d397a60b4)
  - See also [How To Write A Case Study For Your Design Portfolio](https://www.format.com/magazine/resources/design/how-to-write-design-case-study)
- [Design Over Time: the Value of Case Studies](https://educators.aiga.org/design-over-time-the-value-of-case-studies/)

### GitHub Tips

- [How to Write a Git Commit Message](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/)
  - As a suggestion for writing more meaningful message, it’s worth a read.

## Resources

### Markdown

- [Markdown Guide: Basic Syntax](https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/)

### Punctuation

- [The Punctuation Guide](https://www.thepunctuationguide.com)

### Writing Tools

- [Grammarly Editor](https://www.grammarly.com)
- [Hemingway Editor](https://www.hemingwayapp.com)

### Tutorials

- [5 mins on Lean Content](https://stephaniehay.com/2012/12/24/lean-content-testing-marketing-copy-instead-of-spinning-your-wheels/)
- [Crafting Your Story](https://thegymnasium.com/take5/crafting-your-story)
- [Storytelling for Designers](https://thegymnasium.com/take5/storytelling-for-designers)

### Images

- [Choose the right image format](https://web.dev/choose-the-right-image-format/)
- [Optimizing Images for Web: A Practical Guide](https://www.abetterlemonadestand.com/optimizing-images-for-web/)

### Image Optimization Tools

- [ImageOptim](https://imageoptim.com/mac)
- [ImageAlpha](https://pngmini.com) for alpha and transparency heavy images
- [Squoosh](https://squoosh.app)
- [IMG Online](https://www.imgonline.com.ua/eng/remove-jpeg-artifacts.php) to remove artifacts and pixelation

## Vocabulary

- **Aboutness**
  - Subject matter or topic; relating to the meaning of a text in a document (such as a web page, PDF, graphic image or video) from the author’s perspective. Keywords are essential for communicating aboutness.
- **Keyword**
  - A word or concept of great importance. Keywords are ideas and topics that define what your content is about. Keyword research tells you what topics people care about.

Commit message:

Update Aboutness homework
- Update langugage
- Add example student case study

03-aboutness.md, after:

# Aboutness

- [Brief](#brief)
- [Warm-Up](#warm-up)
- [Methods](#methods)
- [Handoff](#handoff)
- [Homework](#homework)
- [Examples](#examples)
- [Readings](#readings)
- [Resources](#resources)
- [Vocabulary](#vocabulary)

## Brief

> The designer must think first, work later.
>
> —[Ladislav Sutnar](https://www.aiga.org/medalist-ladislavsutnar), [Pioneer of Information Design](https://www.eyemagazine.com/feature/article/sutnar), 1897–1976

> Get rid of half the words on each page, then get rid of half of what’s left.
>
> —[Steve Krug](https://sensible.com/about/), usability consultant and author of [Don’t Make Me Think](https://sensible.com/dont-make-me-think/)

1. Write a concise, single sentence about yourself as a designer, in under 120 characters in length.
    - Examples:
      - I am Chaitanya, product designer, mother and a photography enthusiast currently living in San Francisco. (`104 characters`)
      - Amanda Pinsker—Experience designer. I like to rethink things through experimentation, compassion, and a sense of humor. (`119 characters`)
2. *(Maybe start here first.)* Write a series of short paragraphs (one to three) about who you are, beyond being a designer; a personal bio that tells your story, with an emphasis on keywords about what you do, your passions, experience, etc. Consider each paragraph as two to three short, meaningful descriptions (120 characters each).
    - See [About Me](#about-me) for examples.
3. Choose a project to develop as a case study for your portfolio and write about the process using the PAR and RAD content methods. Aim for around 500 *words* (not characters).
    - See [Case Studies](#case-studies) for examples.

- **Note:** Don’t worry about length — write first — then edit for clarity and conciseness later.

## Warm-Up

Consider generating a keyword list to start the process of writing:

- designer
- rethink
- experimentation
- compassion
- humor

## Methods

### PAR

Problem, action, and result:

1. What problem did the project solve?
2. What actions did you take to do this project?
3. How successful were you in solving the problem?
    - What were the results of the project?
- See [Crafting Your Story](https://thegymnasium.com/take5/crafting-your-story)

### RAD

Lean content is reliable, authentic, and direct language (this builds the reader’s trust and confidence).

1. Reliable
    - It sets and meets the reader’s expectations; it’s consistent throughout each piece of content.
2. Authentic
    - If feels like a real conversation is happening; the language is natural and clear.
3. Direct
    - It gives you exactly what you need to make a decision.
- See [5 mins on Lean Content](https://stephaniehay.com/2012/12/24/lean-content-testing-marketing-copy-instead-of-spinning-your-wheels/)

## Handoff

Share a link to your work in the `03-aboutness` channel in Slack.

### GitHub Config

- Create a project folder (repo) with two Markdown files, plus an `img` folder with images.
  - For example:
    - `03-aboutness`
      - `index.md`
      - `case-study.md`
      - `img`
        - `filename.png`
        - `…`

### Markdown Files

- `index.md`

```
# Your Name

## About Me

A concise, single sentence about yourself as a designer (aim for about 100 characers).

- [View Selected Case Study](case-study.md) <!-- A link to your case study -->

## My Story

![Alt text description.](img/lsutnar-headshot.png) <! -- Maybe a photo of yourself? -->

A series of short paragraphs (one to three) about who you are, beyond being a designer; a personal bio that tells your story, with an emphasis on keywords about what you do, your passions, experience, etc. Consider each paragraph as two to three short, meaningful descriptions (120 characters each). Don’t worry about length — write first — then edit for clarity and conciseness later.
```

- `case-study.md`

```
# Project Title

Content goes here…

![Alt text description.](img/filename.png)

Note: Use Markdown for headings, paragraphs, lists, quotes, images, etc., to add structural meaning to your content.
```

### Image Details

See [Images](#images) for resources on choosing the right image format and file optimization.

- Size: Export images to a max width of `1280 px` (considered full-width-esque) at a resolution of `72 px` and any width below depending on your content.
- Format: If it’s a photo, save as a JPG; and if it’s *not* a photo, save as a PNG.
- Name: Use a meaningful filename, in all-lowercase, and separate words with hyphens. See [Naming guidelines](https://developers.google.com/style/filenames) and <cite>[Dashes vs. underscores](https://www.mattcutts.com/blog/dashes-vs-underscores/)</cite> for details.
  - Use the filename convention of case, letter, first name initial followed by last name (surname) combined with the best practice of all-lowercase and separate words with hyphens.
    - For example: `project-detail-1.png`

**Notes:**

- For animation(s), without sound, use an animated GIF as the file format, and still use Markdown’s image syntax (`![Alt text description.](img/animation.gif)`).
- For video(s), try using [Video to markdown!](https://video-to-markdown.netlify.app) to generate the necessary Markdown.

## Homework

1. Edit your about me text focusing on your expertise, passion, and personality:
  - Do you need it? <s>My name is</s>
  - Who am I hiring?
  - What makes you, *you*, outside of design?
2. Edit your case study based on in-class feedback, using the following criteria:

### Holistic

- Balance the number of images and amount of text
  - If there’s an image, it either needs a short description above or a caption below.
  - As an exercise, remove all the images, is the text TL;DR (too long; didn’t read)?
    - Maybe you started at under 1,000 words. Can you tell your story with clarity and meaning, in half the words, without losing your reliable, authentic, and direct language?
    - Listen (Start at `2:45`) [
Episode 35 – Don’t Make Me Think with Steve Krug](https://extraordinarybusinessbooks.com/episode-35-dont-make-me-think-with-steve-krug/)
  - And vice versa (the other way around), remove all the text, do the images tell the story on their own, from start to finish?
    - For example, see [Jakub Kula’s informative imagery](https://jakub-kula.github.io/english-for-designers/03-aboutness/case-study.html)

### Proximate

- Title, client, and short description
  - For example:
    ```
    # Wemo Smart Dimmer Setup
    ## Belkin International, Inc.

    Setting up a smart dimmer switch involves wiring, calibrating brightness levels, and connecting to a smart home app. I coordinated design of multiple touch points in guiding users through this process.
    ```
- Project details:
  - My Goal
  - What you did; topics/keywords: Ideation, identity, UX, typography, design system
  - Team
  - Role
  - Dates
  - Deadlines (Two-day project)
  - etc.
    - Examples:
      - Caroline Win: [Wemo Smart Dimmer Setup](https://www.carolinewin.com/case-studies/wemo-smart-dimmer-setup)
      - Simon Collison: [Citipo](https://colly.com/work/citipo)

3. Begin to collect and collate content for your résumé/CV (curriculum vitae).
  - The clients in your case studies will map to your work experience section of your résumé/CV.

### Extra Credit

- Choose another project; document and write another case study.

## Examples

### About Me

- [Caroline Win](https://www.carolinewin.com)
  - [About Me](https://www.carolinewin.com/about)
- [Chaitanya Mendu](https://www.chaitanya.design)
  - [My Story](https://www.chaitanya.design/about-me)
- [Amanda Pinsker](https://amandapinsker.com)
- [Simon Collison](https://colly.com/about)
- [Designer Bio Generator™](https://lab.sulko.co/designer-bio/)
- [etc. (&c.)](https://sidebar.io/category/portfolios/)

### Case Studies

- Caroline Win
  - [Wemo Smart Dimmer Setup](https://www.carolinewin.com/case-studies/wemo-smart-dimmer-setup)
- Simon Collison
  - [Strong Back | Open Heart](https://colly.com/work/strong-back-open-heart)
  - [Citipo](https://colly.com/work/citipo)
- Upstatement
  - [Tito’s Handmade Vodka: Turning spirits into love & goodness](https://upstatement.com/case-study/titos-handmade-vodka/)
- Pentagram
  - [Shake Shack](https://www.pentagram.com/work/shake-shack)
- [UX Case Studies](https://uxdesign.cc/ux-case-studies/home)
- [RGD Case Studies](https://www.rgd.ca/community/case-studies.php)

## Readings

### Content Strategy

- [Being Real Builds Trust](https://alistapart.com/article/being-real-builds-trust/)
- [The Text-First Portfolio](https://www.uxbeginner.com/the-text-first-ux-portfolio/)
- [
Episode 35 – Don’t Make Me Think with Steve Krug](https://extraordinarybusinessbooks.com/episode-35-dont-make-me-think-with-steve-krug/) (Start at `2:45`)

### Case Study Development

- [UX Portfolio Case Study template (plus examples from successful hires)](https://uxplanet.org/ux-portfolio-case-study-template-plus-examples-from-successful-hires-86d5b0faa2d6)
- [How to Write Project Case Studies for Your Portfolio](https://medium.com/@vanschneider/how-to-write-project-case-studies-for-your-portfolio-2e8d397a60b4)
  - See also [How To Write A Case Study For Your Design Portfolio](https://www.format.com/magazine/resources/design/how-to-write-design-case-study)
- [Design Over Time: the Value of Case Studies](https://educators.aiga.org/design-over-time-the-value-of-case-studies/)

### GitHub Tips

- [How to Write a Git Commit Message](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/)
  - As a suggestion for writing more meaningful message, it’s worth a read.

## Resources

### Markdown

- [Markdown Guide: Basic Syntax](https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/)

### Punctuation

- [The Punctuation Guide](https://www.thepunctuationguide.com)

### Writing Tools

- [Grammarly Editor](https://www.grammarly.com)
- [Hemingway Editor](https://www.hemingwayapp.com)

### Tutorials

- [5 mins on Lean Content](https://stephaniehay.com/2012/12/24/lean-content-testing-marketing-copy-instead-of-spinning-your-wheels/)
- [Crafting Your Story](https://thegymnasium.com/take5/crafting-your-story)
- [Storytelling for Designers](https://thegymnasium.com/take5/storytelling-for-designers)

### Images

- [Choose the right image format](https://web.dev/choose-the-right-image-format/)
- [Optimizing Images for Web: A Practical Guide](https://www.abetterlemonadestand.com/optimizing-images-for-web/)

### Image Optimization Tools

- [ImageOptim](https://imageoptim.com/mac)
- [ImageAlpha](https://pngmini.com) for alpha and transparency heavy images
- [Squoosh](https://squoosh.app)
- [IMG Online](https://www.imgonline.com.ua/eng/remove-jpeg-artifacts.php) to remove artifacts and pixelation

## Vocabulary

- **Aboutness**
  - Subject matter or topic; relating to the meaning of a text in a document (such as a web page, PDF, graphic image or video) from the author’s perspective. Keywords are essential for communicating aboutness.
- **Keyword**
  - A word or concept of great importance. Keywords are ideas and topics that define what your content is about. Keyword research tells you what topics people care about.
