05-storytelling.md, before:

# Storytelling

- [Brief](#brief)
- [Homework](#homework)
- [Readings](#Readings)
- [Resources](#Resources)

## Brief

> The universe is made of stories, not atoms.
>
> —[Bobette Buster](http://www.bobettebuster.com), storyteller, author, and consultant

> The most powerful person in the world is the story teller. The storyteller sets the vision, values, and agenda of an entire generation that is to come…
>
> —[Steve Jobs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Steve_Jobs)

## Homework

1. Start thinking about your story as a designer.

  - Consider the following questions (and perhaps make some notes):
    - Why do you love what you do?
    - What do you believe in? What’s your design philosophy?
    - Who inspired/inspires you?
    - Where does your inspiration come from?
    - When was that aha moment?

  - And read the following three design stories: ↓

## Readings

### Design Stories

- [How to (properly) break your design system](https://breakyourdesignsystem.com)
- [The Daily Heller: The Assistant, Jayme Odgers, Works for Paul Rand](https://www.printmag.com/daily-heller/the-daily-heller-the-assistant-jayme-odgers-works-for-paul-rand/)
- [1995 AIGA Medalist: Ladislav Sutnar](https://epi.aiga.org/medalist-ladislavsutnar)

### Storytelling

- [The 10 Principles of Storytelling](https://medium.com/do-book-company/the-10-principles-of-storytelling-67a25a026f32)

## Resources

### Accessible Color Tools

- [Accessibile Colors](https://accessible-colors.com)
- [Coblis —
Color Blindness Simulator](https://www.color-blindness.com/coblis-color-blindness-simulator/)
- [Contraste](https://contrasteapp.com)
  - Contraste is a simple app for checking the accessibility of text against the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) for macOS.
- [Pika](https://superhighfives.com/pika)
  - Pika is an easy to use, open-source, native colour picker for macOS (10.15+)

Commit message:

Update Storytelling resources
- Update accessible color tools

05-storytelling.md, after:

# Storytelling

- [Brief](#brief)
- [Homework](#homework)
- [Readings](#Readings)
- [Resources](#Resources)

## Brief

> The universe is made of stories, not atoms.
>
> —[Bobette Buster](http://www.bobettebuster.com), storyteller, author, and consultant

> The most powerful person in the world is the story teller. The storyteller sets the vision, values, and agenda of an entire generation that is to come…
>
> —[Steve Jobs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Steve_Jobs)

## Homework

1. Start thinking about your story as a designer.

  - Consider the following questions (and perhaps make some notes):
    - Why do you love what you do?
    - What do you believe in? What’s your design philosophy?
    - Who inspired/inspires you?
    - Where does your inspiration come from?
    - When was that aha moment?

  - And read the following three design stories: ↓

## Readings

### Design Stories

- [How to (properly) break your design system](https://breakyourdesignsystem.com)
- [The Daily Heller: The Assistant, Jayme Odgers, Works for Paul Rand](https://www.printmag.com/daily-heller/the-daily-heller-the-assistant-jayme-odgers-works-for-paul-rand/)
- [1995 AIGA Medalist: Ladislav Sutnar](https://epi.aiga.org/medalist-ladislavsutnar)

### Storytelling

- [The 10 Principles of Storytelling](https://medium.com/do-book-company/the-10-principles-of-storytelling-67a25a026f32)

## Resources

### Accessible Color Tools

- [Accessibile Colors](https://accessible-colors.com)
- [Coblis —
Color Blindness Simulator](https://www.color-blindness.com/coblis-color-blindness-simulator/)

Color pickers for checking the accessibility of text against the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) for Windows and macOS.

- [TGPi Colour Contrast Analyser (CCA)](https://www.tpgi.com/color-contrast-checker/) (Windows and Mac)
- [Contraste](https://contrasteapp.com) (Mac only)
- [Pika](https://superhighfives.com/pika) (Mac only)
