05-voice-tone.md, before:

# Voice & Tone

- [Brief](#brief)
- [Handoff](#handoff)
- [Readings](#readings)
- [Resources](#resources)
- [Vocabulary](#vocabulary)

## Brief

> - Never use a metaphor, simile, or other figure of speech which you are used to seeing in print.
> - Never use a long word where a short one will do.
> - If it is possible to cut a word out, always cut it out.
> - Never use the passive where you can use the active.
> - Never use a foreign phrase, a scientific word, or a jargon word if you can think of an everyday English equivalent.
> - Break any of these rules sooner than say anything outright barbarous.
>
> — [George Orwell](https://www.openculture.com/2016/05/george-orwells-six-rules-for-writing-clear-and-tight-prose.html), author and critic

Consider the writing you’ve done this semester. Take inventory of the voice, tone, and style used in your about texts, case study, and CV, then write a simple content style guide that summarizes your personal brand’s voice, tone, and style.
  - See [What is the difference between voice and tone?](https://medium.com/evoking-brand/what-is-the-difference-between-voice-and-tone-5f0fca775520), then Mailchimp’s [Writing Goals and Principles:
Mailchimp](https://styleguide.mailchimp.com/writing-principles/) and [Voice and Tone: Mailchimp](https://styleguide.mailchimp.com/voice-and-tone/) for structure

## Handoff

Share a link to your work in the `05-voice-tone` channel in Slack.

### GitHub Config

- Create a project folder (repo) with a Markdown file.
  - For example:
    - `05-voice-tone`
        - `index.md`

### Markdown Files

Use this template as a starting point, but expand or add content sections as needed, and based on existing content style guides that best suit your writing style.

- `index.md`

```
# Voice & Tone

An overview…

## Voice

Introduction to section…

1. …
2. …
3. …

## Tone

Introduction to section…

- …
- …
- …

## Style

Introduction to section…

<!-- Perhaps include style tips on capitalization of headings (sentence or title case), words to avoid, or general grammar and mechanics dos and don'ts, etc. -->

- …
- …
- …

```

## Readings

### Voice, Tone, and Style

- [The Four Dimensions of Tone of Voice](https://www.nngroup.com/articles/tone-of-voice-dimensions/)
  - [Tone-of-Voice Words](https://www.nngroup.com/articles/tone-voice-words/)
- [Voice, tone and style: The whys, wheres and hows](https://gathercontent.com/blog/voice-tone-style-whys-wheres-hows)
- [What is the difference between voice and tone?](https://medium.com/evoking-brand/what-is-the-difference-between-voice-and-tone-5f0fca775520)
- [7 Best Examples of Brand Voice & Tone](https://www.ebaqdesign.com/blog/brand-voice)
- [10 Steps to Finding Your Writing Voice](https://goinswriter.com/writing-voice/)

### Writing Tips

- [Why consistent writing makes you a better designer](https://dribbble.com/stories/2019/10/10/why-writing-makes-you-a-better-designer)
- [UX Writing: How Voice and Tone Can Transform the User Experience](https://blog.prototypr.io/ux-writing-how-voice-and-tone-can-transform-the-user-experience-30095a6ebf4e)
- [Orwell’s 6 Rules](https://sites.duke.edu/scientificwriting/orwells-6-rules/)
- [George Orwell on Writing and the Four Questions Great Writers Must Ask Themselves](https://www.brainpickings.org/2014/09/18/george-orwell-writing-politics-and-the-english-language/)

## Resources

### Content Style Guides

- [Voice and tone: 18F Content Guide](https://content-guide.18f.gov/our-style/voice-and-tone/)
- [Voice and Tone: Firefox Photon Design System](https://design.firefox.com/photon/copy/voice-and-tone.html)
- [Voice, Starbucks Creative Expression](https://creative.starbucks.com/voice/)
- [Voice and Tone: Salesforce Lightning Design System ](https://www.lightningdesignsystem.com/guidelines/voice-and-tone/)
- [Writing Goals and Principles: Mailchimp](https://styleguide.mailchimp.com/writing-principles/)
- [Voice and Tone: Mailchimp](https://styleguide.mailchimp.com/voice-and-tone/)
- [Content principles: University of Dundee](https://www.dundee.ac.uk/brand/content-style-guide/content-principles/)
- [Voice and tone: University of Dundee](https://www.dundee.ac.uk/brand/content-style-guide/voice-tone/)
- [Style: The Punctuation Guide](https://www.thepunctuationguide.com/style.html)

### Books

- [Microcopy:
The Complete Guide](https://www.microcopybook.com) (promo code: `prototypr10`)

## Vocabulary

- **Voice**
  - TK
- **Tone**
  - TK
- **Style**
  - TK
- **TK**
  - To come; a printing and journalism placeholder shorthand, used to signify that additional material will be added at a later date, commonly abbreviated to “TK”.

Commit message:

Add Voice & Tone homework
- Add content style guide and accessible writing tasks

05-voice-tone.md, after:

# Voice & Tone

- [Brief](#brief)
- [Handoff](#handoff)
- [Readings](#readings)
- [Resources](#resources)
- [Vocabulary](#vocabulary)

## Brief

> - Never use a metaphor, simile, or other figure of speech which you are used to seeing in print.
> - Never use a long word where a short one will do.
> - If it is possible to cut a word out, always cut it out.
> - Never use the passive where you can use the active.
> - Never use a foreign phrase, a scientific word, or a jargon word if you can think of an everyday English equivalent.
> - Break any of these rules sooner than say anything outright barbarous.
>
> — [George Orwell](https://www.openculture.com/2016/05/george-orwells-six-rules-for-writing-clear-and-tight-prose.html), author and critic

Consider the writing you’ve done this semester. Take inventory of the voice, tone, and style used in your about texts, case study, and CV, then write a simple content style guide that summarizes your personal brand’s voice, tone, and style.
  - See [What is the difference between voice and tone?](https://medium.com/evoking-brand/what-is-the-difference-between-voice-and-tone-5f0fca775520), then Mailchimp’s [Writing Goals and Principles:
Mailchimp](https://styleguide.mailchimp.com/writing-principles/) and [Voice and Tone: Mailchimp](https://styleguide.mailchimp.com/voice-and-tone/) for structure

## Handoff

Share a link to your work in the `05-voice-tone` channel in Slack.

### GitHub Config

- Create a project folder (repo) with a Markdown file.
  - For example:
    - `05-voice-tone`
        - `index.md`

### Markdown Files

Use this template as a starting point, but expand or add content sections as needed, and based on existing content style guides that best suit your writing style.

- `index.md`

```
# Voice & Tone

An overview…

## Voice

Introduction to section…

1. …
2. …
3. …

## Tone

Introduction to section…

- …
- …
- …

## Style

Introduction to section…

<!-- Perhaps include style tips on capitalization of headings (sentence or title case), words to avoid, or general grammar and mechanics dos and don'ts, etc. -->

- …
- …
- …
```

## Homework

1. Use your *new* content style guide to revise about texts, case study, and CV content. Ask yourself, "Is this me, in writing? Do I sound like this in person?"

2. Use these four tips to revise your content for better accessible writing:

- Aim for an average sentence length of 20-ish words.
- Keep an eye out for any 3- and 4-syllable words, and replace 2- and 1-syllable words. See [Use simple words and phrases](https://www.plainlanguage.gov/guidelines/words/use-simple-words-phrases/) for reference.
- Use contractions early and often.
- Use [Hemingway Editor](https://www.hemingwayapp.com) to double-check your reading-level (lower is better), fix passive voice, complex words and sentences, etc.

## Readings

### Voice, Tone, and Style

- [The Four Dimensions of Tone of Voice](https://www.nngroup.com/articles/tone-of-voice-dimensions/)
  - [Tone-of-Voice Words](https://www.nngroup.com/articles/tone-voice-words/)
- [Voice, tone and style: The whys, wheres and hows](https://gathercontent.com/blog/voice-tone-style-whys-wheres-hows)
- [What is the difference between voice and tone?](https://medium.com/evoking-brand/what-is-the-difference-between-voice-and-tone-5f0fca775520)
- [7 Best Examples of Brand Voice & Tone](https://www.ebaqdesign.com/blog/brand-voice)
- [10 Steps to Finding Your Writing Voice](https://goinswriter.com/writing-voice/)

### Writing Tips

- [Why consistent writing makes you a better designer](https://dribbble.com/stories/2019/10/10/why-writing-makes-you-a-better-designer)
- [UX Writing: How Voice and Tone Can Transform the User Experience](https://blog.prototypr.io/ux-writing-how-voice-and-tone-can-transform-the-user-experience-30095a6ebf4e)
- [Orwell’s 6 Rules](https://sites.duke.edu/scientificwriting/orwells-6-rules/)
- [George Orwell on Writing and the Four Questions Great Writers Must Ask Themselves](https://www.brainpickings.org/2014/09/18/george-orwell-writing-politics-and-the-english-language/)

## Resources

### Content Style Guides

- [Voice and tone: 18F Content Guide](https://content-guide.18f.gov/our-style/voice-and-tone/)
- [Voice and Tone: Firefox Photon Design System](https://design.firefox.com/photon/copy/voice-and-tone.html)
- [Voice, Starbucks Creative Expression](https://creative.starbucks.com/voice/)
- [Voice and Tone: Salesforce Lightning Design System ](https://www.lightningdesignsystem.com/guidelines/voice-and-tone/)
- [Writing Goals and Principles: Mailchimp](https://styleguide.mailchimp.com/writing-principles/)
- [Voice and Tone: Mailchimp](https://styleguide.mailchimp.com/voice-and-tone/)
- [Content principles: University of Dundee](https://www.dundee.ac.uk/brand/content-style-guide/content-principles/)
- [Voice and tone: University of Dundee](https://www.dundee.ac.uk/brand/content-style-guide/voice-tone/)
- [Style: The Punctuation Guide](https://www.thepunctuationguide.com/style.html)

### Lecture

- [Accessible Writing](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mtV05PG0ZX4)

### Books

- [Microcopy:
The Complete Guide](https://www.microcopybook.com) (promo code: `prototypr10`)

### Plain Words

- [Use simple words and phrases](https://www.plainlanguage.gov/guidelines/words/use-simple-words-phrases/)

## Vocabulary

- **Voice**
  - TK
- **Tone**
  - TK
- **Style**
  - TK
- **TK**
  - To come; a printing and journalism placeholder shorthand, used to signify that additional material will be added at a later date, commonly abbreviated to “TK”.
