07-homepage.md, before:

# Homepage

- [Brief](#brief) (with handoff details)
  1. [Homepage](#homepage)
  2. [Takeaways](#takeaways)
- [Readings](#readings)
- [Resources](#resources)


## Brief

1. Create a [homepage](#homepage) (or home page) for all content from <cite>English for Designers</cite>, including work-in-progress <cite>Storytelling</cite> and <cite>Takeaways</cite>.
2. Create a page listing the top five [takeaways](#takeaways) “things I learned" this semester using text, links, images (optional), etc.


## Homepage

Create an `index.md` as a table of contents (or home page) for your public website `https://username.github.io/english-for-designers` that links to your various content.

  - See my work-in-progress [home page](https://jgagne.github.io/english-for-designers/) for reference, but only as a starting point, as it is incomplete, and you can do better than this.

  - For example, [`https://github.com/jgagne/english-for-designers/blob/main/index.md`](https://github.com/jgagne/english-for-designers/blob/main/index.md) and [raw](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jgagne/english-for-designers/main/index.md) Markdown file for reference.

  - Double-check the naming of your repo; if you have something other than `english-for-designers` (all lowercase), then please rename.
    1. On GitHub, navigate to the main page of the repository.
    2. Under your repository name, click **Settings**.
    3.  Under the **Repository Name** heading, type the new name of your repository.
    4. Click **Rename**.

-  **Note:** Inclusion of <cite>Composition</cite> is *optional*.

### Handoff

Share a link to your work in the `07-homepage` channel in Slack.

#### GitHub Config

- `07-homepage`
  - `index.md`

#### Markdown Files

- `index.md`
  - See my second-rate [example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jgagne/english-for-designers/main/index.md) (Please, make first-rate!)


## Takeaways

Create a page listing the top five takeaways “things I learned” this semester using text, links, images (optional), etc.

### Handoff

Share a link to your work in the `extra-takeaways` channel in Slack.

#### GitHub Config

- `extra-takeaways`
  - `index.md`

#### Markdown Files

- `index.md`

```
# Takeaways

Five things I learned this semester:

1. …
2. …
3. …
4. …
5. …
```

## Readings

- [Why Do We Call it a Homepage?](https://thehistoryoftheweb.com/why-do-we-call-it-a-homepage/)
- [A short history of the Web](http://home.cern/science/computing/birth-web/short-history-web)

## Resources

- [Accessible Typography](https://apastyle.apa.org/style-grammar-guidelines/paper-format/accessibility/typography)

Commit message:

Update Homepage content
- Update language
- Update formatting

07-homepage.md, after:

# Homepage

- [Brief](#brief) (with handoff details)
  1. [Homepage](#homepage)
  2. [Takeaways](#takeaways)
- [Readings](#readings)
- [Resources](#resources)

## Brief

1. Create a [homepage](#homepage) (or home page) for all content from <cite>English for Designers</cite>, including work-in-progress <cite>Storytelling</cite> and <cite>Takeaways</cite>.
2. Create a page listing the top five [takeaways](#takeaways), “things I learned,” this semester using text, links, images (optional), etc.

## Homepage

Create an `index.md` as a table of contents (or home page) for your public website `https://username.github.io/english-for-designers` that links to your various content.

  - **Note:** Inclusion of <cite>Composition</cite> is *optional*.
  - See my work-in-progress [home page](https://jgagne.github.io/english-for-designers/) for reference, but only as a starting point, as it is incomplete, and you can do better than this.
    - For example, [`https://github.com/jgagne/english-for-designers/blob/main/index.md`](https://github.com/jgagne/english-for-designers/blob/main/index.md) and [raw](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jgagne/english-for-designers/main/index.md) Markdown file for reference.
  - Double-check the naming of your repo; if you have something other than `english-for-designers` (all lowercase), then please rename.
    - On GitHub, navigate to the main page of the repository.
    - Under your repository name, click **Settings**.
    - Under the **Repository Name** heading, type the new name of your repo.
    - Click **Rename**.
  - Add your homepage URL `https://username.github.io/english-for-designers/` to the Website field in the **About** section (click the gear icon) in your repo `https://github.com/username/english-for-designers` for easy access.

### Handoff

Share a link to your work in the `07-homepage` channel in Slack.

#### GitHub Config

- `07-homepage`
  - `index.md`

#### Markdown Files

- `index.md`
  - See my second-rate [example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jgagne/english-for-designers/main/index.md) (Please, make first-rate!)

## Takeaways

Create a page listing the top five takeaways, “things I learned,” this semester using text, links, images (optional), etc.

### Handoff

Share a link to your work in the `extra-takeaways` channel in Slack.

#### GitHub Config

- `extra-takeaways`
  - `index.md`

#### Markdown Files

- `index.md`

```
# Takeaways

Five things I learned this semester:

1. …
2. …
3. …
4. …
5. …
```

## Readings

- [Why Do We Call it a Homepage?](https://thehistoryoftheweb.com/why-do-we-call-it-a-homepage/)
- [A short history of the Web](http://home.cern/science/computing/birth-web/short-history-web)

## Resources

- [Accessible Typography](https://apastyle.apa.org/style-grammar-guidelines/paper-format/accessibility/typography)
